as Les Brown says other people's opinion
of you does not have to become your
reality the truth is all of us we get to
decide who we are there's no objective
truth that you're going to find or
uncover you're simply the collection of
the things that you believe to be true
about yourself and once you begin to
form that opinion of who you are you'll
act in accordance with that belief you
begin to shape a vision of yourself in
your own mind and that becomes the
reality so letting other people
influence that letting other people come
in and degrade what you think of
yourself is one of the most dangerous
and damning things that you could do
because they cloud your ability to craft
to craft a vision of the person that you
want to become and that vision is so
hard for all of us to hold on to that we
have to protect it we have to keep other
people out of that we've got to have
intention in creating the person that we
want to become
it's got to be deliberate it's not about
trying to reflect what you think is true
it's about reflecting what you want to
be true and once you have that kind of
agenda going into something and building
yourself into someone that you want to
be and you protect it you don't let
other people crowd it then you can morph
and evolve into something powerful into
something beautiful into someone who's
capable of doing the things that you
want to do and as Booker T Washington
said if you want to lift yourself up
lift up someone else
so while you have to protect yourself
from others opinions going out and
helping other people craft the vision of
themselves that's beautiful that's made
of things that are real that are
authentic things that you really see in
them it's not about lying to them to try
to get them to believe something that
isn't true but it's about helping them
see what it could be and when you're
that kind of person when you give with
that generosity of spirit trying to help
other people shape their mind into
something powerful to have a vision of
themselves it's exciting to fills them
with the sense that they could do it
whatever that is whatever dream it is
that they're trying to make come true if
you can help them architect that vision
even if it's just with a simple
compliment even if all you do is say
well done even if all you do is be the
first person to clap for somebody when
they do something to help them up to
help them see a vision of something more
than they are that will lift you up and
then that becomes part of your vision of
yourself and then all of the sudden
you're in this virtuous cycle of helping
other people and feeling better about
yourself and becoming something more
simply by extending a hand to somebody
else so protect yourself from negativity
and fill yourself with optimism and help
others do the same if you do that you'll
love who you are
as Thomas Jefferson said he who knows
best knows just how little he knows this
has been one of the most surreal things
about my experience as an entrepreneur
is that the better I get at it the more
that I do the more I feel lost the more
I feel like there's too much for me to
possibly know and understand and in that
is my power that's literally the source
of my power because I understand that my
journey is one of learning I understand
that as navall Ravi Kant said the
genuine love for reading itself when
cultivated is a superpower the means of
learning are abundant it's the desire to
learn that scarce but if you have that
desire if you cultivate that desire to
learn if you accept that you're in this
big world that is far too big for you to
understand every piece of it but in
recognizing that you don't understand it
all and putting yourself on this quest
to learn obsessively to get better to
fall in love with the actual process of
gaining knowledge if you stay hungry for
that at all times and you don't calcify
your thoughts into Dogma but rather stay
fresh stay naive stay hungry and foolish
to really learn and grow then you
actually obtain power and this is the
part I want people to understand look
past the words and hear what I'm really
saying as you take on the knowledge as
you're learning one thing after another
after another those skills have
practical application and it is that
practical application born of
understanding how little you really know
that allows you to become far more
powerful than the people that think they
know because when they think they know
they stop throwing and they think they
know they calcified when they think they
know their thoughts get brittle like
bone and break
[Music]
think you know nothing you think you
have to learn everything when you're
really just trying to figure out if
something works if it gets you the
result then those skills become real
they become tested by what you're doing
they are boundless because you're always
trying to find that next thing you're
never self-satisfied you never
self-congratulatory you're simply asking
where do I want to go what skills do I
need to acquire to get there and knowing
that each one of those that you get
brick by brick by brick builds a real
path to where you want to go so fall in
love with the idea that you know nothing
fall in love with the idea that learning
is a superpower fall in love with that
hunger want that want to get better
every day never never be tricked by the
desire to be self satisfied never be
tricked by the desire to be great today
never fool yourself into thinking who
you are today is who you can become
I don't care how far you've come I don't
care how many accomplishments are in
your rear view mirror if you fall prey
to that your past will always be bigger
than your future and there's one mandate
that I make of myself and anyone else
that wants to be around me your future
must always be bigger than your past and
the only way for that to be true is to
love how little you really know and to
love how much you can learn
if you just keep going
you
[Music]